Cassava root is eaten as a vegetable and is considered to be toxic in raw form which is why it must be cooked before being consumed. 
Cassava root has a variety of applications, some of which include the production of flour, starch, or ethanol. Cassava leaves can supply a good source of vitamins and protein which can also be consumed after cooking. Cassava hay is used as animal feed and it plays a role in the production of adhesives, textiles, and cosmetics.
Cassava, Manihot esculenta, is a perennial shrub in the family Euphorbiaceae grown primarily for its storage roots which are eaten as a vegetable. The cassava plant is a woody plant with erect stems and spirally arranged simple lobed leaves with petioles (leaf stems) up to 30 cm in length. The plant produces petal-less flowers on a raceme. The edible roots of the plant are usually cylindrical and tapered and are white, brown or reddish in color. Cassava plants can reach 4 m in height and is usually harvested 9-12 months after planting. 
Cassava may also be referred to as Brazilian arrowroot, manioc, yuca or tapioca and the origins of the plant are unknown.
Cassava is not known to occur wild but may have first been cultivated in Brazil. 
Cassava is the third-largest source of food carbohydrates in the tropics, after rice and maize. It is a major staple food in the developing world, providing a basic diet for over half a billion people. It is one of the most drought-tolerant crops, capable of growing on marginal soils. 
Cassava thrives in tropical and subtropical regions of the world as it requires warm temperatures for optimal growth. The plants require at least 8 months of warm weather, thriving in regions with warm, moist climates with regular rainfall. Cassava can be grown in many types of soil, producing even in poor soil but but will be optimally productive in well-draining, sandy clay loam with a pH between 5.5 and 6.5. Cassava is drought resistant but will not tolerate water-logging. Root production is maximized when temperatures are between 25 and 32°C (77–90°F). Cassava should be planted in full sun and is very sensitive to shading, which leads to low yields. 
Cassava is propagated from stem cuttings as the tubers do not produce buds. Stem cuttings should only be taken from plants which are free from disease, are at least 10 months old and havee borne tubers. The cuttings should be taken from hardened stems leaving at least 30 cm (11.8 in) of stem intact in the ground. The stem can be severed using a sharp knife, secateurs or saw and each cutting should have 1-2 nodes and be approximately 20 cm (7.9 in) long. 
It is a good idea to dip the cassava stem cuttings in an appropriate fungicide prior to planting to help prevent the development of diseases. The cassava stem cuttings can then either be planted directly into a nursery bed or presprouted in trays or polyethylene bags. To presprout the cassava stems, plant in a cell tray or bag which is filled with good quality soil. Plant one stem in each cell or bag by pushing it into the soil in the direction in which it was growing on the mother plant (oldest part of stem first). The trays should be kept in partial shade until the stems begin to sprout. If planting stem cuttings in a nursery bed (best for cuttings taken from higher up the stems where the wood is not mature), select a site with good quality soil in partial shade and prepare a bed at least 1 m (3.3 ft) wide. The stems can be planted horizontally in a nursery bed and this encourages the growth of multiple stems. Space the cuttings 10 x 10 cm (4 x 4 in) grid. Stem cutting should be watered immediately after planting and on a regular basis thereafter. Aim to keep the soil moist but not wet. Stems should begin to sprout 7-10 days after planting.
Plants propagated from cassava stem cuttings are ready to be transplanted after approximately 4-6 weeks. Prepare the field for planting by cultivating the soil and removing weeds. Space transplants 75–100 cm (2.5–3.2 ft) apart in rows spaced 1–-5 m (3.2–16.4 ft) apart. Fertilize the plants as appropriate. Manure or poultry droppings can be used. Cultivate the soil to remove weeds and break up the soil around the plants. 
Cassava is ready to harvest about a year after planting depending on the variety being grown. Some early maturing varieties may be ready to harvest in around nine months. In colder regions, cassava tubers can remain in the ground for up to 2 years before harvesting but can become fibrous so this is not recommended where cassava is being grown for consumption. Cassava tubers are harvested by digging. The roots should be dug up carefully to prevent damage.
Symptoms of anthracnose are the following: cankers on stems and leaf petioles; leaves drooping downwards; wilting leaves which die and fall from plant leading to plant defoliation; death of shoots; soft parts of plant become twisted and distorted. The disease anthracnose is caused by fungus, and it emerges at the beginning of wet season (Africa) and worsens; spores spready by wind. Anthracnose usually does not cause large-scale economic damage to cassava and control is usually not necessary; avoid planting cuttings with cankers; if disease does occur crop debris should be removed and destroyed after harvest
Symptoms of cassava brown leaf spot are the following: circular or irregular brown spots with darker margin between leaf veins on older leaves; centers of lesions may drop out giving leaves a shothole appearance; if infection is severe, leaves may turn yellow, dry out and drop from the plant. Cassava brown leaf spot is caused by fungus, and it is favored by high temperature and humidity. To manage cassava brown leaf spot, remove leaves and crop debris from around plants to prevent disease spreading; remove weeds from around crop.
Symptoms of cassava white leaf spot are the following: large, scattered white spots on the upper surface of leaves; spots with grey center on underside of leaves in humid weather. Cassava white leaf spot is caused by fungus, and it is common in wetter, warmer regions where cassava is grown (i.e. Brazil, Colombia, West Africa). To manage white leaf spot, remove leaves and crop debris from around plants to prevent disease spreading. Also, remove weeds from around the crop.
Symptoms of witches' broom are the following: plants are stunted with excessive growth of branches; shoots have small leaves and shortened internodes, no chlorisis is present; cuttings from the shoots are weak but show no visible symptoms; few shoots successfully grow from cuttings. Witches' broom is caused by phytoplasma. Witches' broom has been detected in Vietnam, Thailand, Cambodia, Laos, Indonesia, and the Philippines, and will cause a yield loss from 30 to 80 percent. To manage witches' broom, you should remove and destroy plants suspected of being infected, remove all cassava debris from field after harvest, disinfect all tools and equipment between cuttings. 
Symptoms of bud necrosis are the following: patches of gray fungal growth on stems, necrotic areas covering buds on the stem. Bud necrosis is caused by fungus, and it is commonly found on cassava growing in humid regions (i.e. humid forest zones). Bud necrosis is less common in drier savanna areas, and fungal spores are carried by wind to new plants and farms. To manage bud necrosis, only take cassava cuttings from healthy plants that are free from necrotic lesions; space plants widely to allow good air circulation around plants and reduce disease incidence; remove weeds around plants; identify the disease if it is present; burn all necrotic stems and crop debris immediately after harvest to prevent the spread of the disease.
Symptoms of cassava brown streak disease are the following: chloritc or necrotic vein banding in mature leaves which may merge later to form large yellow patches, brown elongated necrotic lesions on young stems, necrosis of tubers, roots develop knots, internal tissues of roots and tubers stained brown and may rot due to secondary fungus infection. Other symptoms include yellowing along veins on lower/older leaves 3 months after planting, dark brown spots on upper green portions of stem 6 months after planting, leaf drying/shoot die-back in severe cases,  brown tubers and root constriction with hard rot when you cut into it 10 months after planting. Cassava brown streak disease is caused by virus, and it is prevalent in East Africa (Tanzania, Uganda, and Kenya). Cassava brown streak disease is transmitted through whiteflies and stem cuttings. To manage cassava brown streak disease, first identify the disease properly using the symptoms mentioned above. Then, to plant use only health and diseased free cuttings for planting. Also, plant cassava varities that are more tolerant of brown streak virus such as Garukunsubire and Seruruseke. Remove and destroy any plants which are symptomatic of the disease, including alternative hosts. Hervest crops early to avooid severe losses due to necrosis of tubers. Follow proper plant quarantine practices to avoid the spread of virus to a new region. You can control whiteflies by introducing insects into your field like spiders, lady bird beetles, etc. Use yellow stick traps to monitor the infestation of whiteflies, and spray insecticidal soaps under the leaf surface to kill flies. 
